hey guys it's Kelly again and welcome
back to my channel
for this video I'm going to talk about
some of the different things that I've
observed about Germany as an American
living here and what's better than
seeing a crazy girl walk down the street
talking to herself into a camera? alright
let's go! I think when a lot of
Americans think about Germany they
immediately think about beer and
Oktoberfest and I was really surprised
to actually learn how popular wine is...
how many wine fests there are, and I'm
living in wine region. All up and down
the Rhine there are so many vineyards
producing just tons of wine. Before
moving to Germany I of course knew about
Oktoberfest and I knew about Christmas
markets but I did not realize how many
fests there are in Germany I feel like I
stumble across fest all the time whether
they're in Mainz or in other cities in
Germany that I'm travelling to... they're
everywhere! I had no idea what Fasching
was before I came to Germany and I know
that I'm kind of cutting this short you
know I'm not really giving it the
explanation it deserves but it's
basically like the German version of
Mardi Gras. everybody gets dressed up
they're partying there are parades it's
a huge huge like day in Mainz and I
think cologne has another one of the
bigger celebrations in Germany and it's
a lot of fun. one of my favorite favorite
things about Germany is the public
transportation. it is so much more
prevalent here and I think that's pretty
well known in the u.s. we just don't
have a lot of public trans and I hate it
but I love in Germany how like every
city has a train station and you can get
anywhere for pretty cheap I mean the ICE
trains start running really really
high but the regional train prices
aren't that bad
and then if you can't get a train there
then you can like take a bus. the buses
go everywhere and of course we have
trains we have metros we have buses the
metros and the buses are pretty much
just in the major cities. this is the
train station in Mainz. I've been to that
train station a lot. I think it's
relatively user friendly I haven't
really had too many issues but I think I
actually might make a video about riding
a train in Germany. there's a
tradition that I learned about in
Germany where a couple that just got
married
might have a ribbon tied to an antenna
or the windshield wiper on the back
window and they're supposed to keep it
on there until it falls off for good
luck for the marriage. I don't really
know if that's like a big tradition in
the u.s. I've never heard of it. I have
seen couples like have their car
decorated for the car that they're gonna
drive away from the ceremony or the
reception in but I don't really think
there's any sort of tradition behind
leaving those ribbons or those
decorations on. I also have witnessed a
few like I don't know what they're
called but they're like a group of like
the groomsmen or the bridesmaids with
the bride or the groom and they'll go
out and they'll sell little bottles of
liquor and from what I understand it's
to help like raise money for the wedding
or maybe it's just to help pay for the
bride's drinks that night but I've just
seen like big groups of people running
around dressed a little crazy and
clearly inebriated having fun like this.
I laughed pretty hard when I learned
that Germans call cell phones
Handys because that is not what handy
means in America.
Germans are, in my opinion, like pretty
collectively pretty healthy people. they
seem to place a high emphasis on
exercise they have really great food
regulations... but one thing that I was
just really really surprised by because
it clashes against this seemingly very
healthy outlook on life, this
healthy lifestyle, is that a lot of
people in Germany smoke. it is a very
stark contrast between what you would
see in the states and I really just
don't understand how smoking is still so
popular here when we know how bad it is
for you. I even see advertisements for
tobacco products here and those have
been outlawed in the States for a really
long time like I think before I was born
or maybe shortly thereafter. I mean they
even have cigarette vending machines
which is crazy to me... they look like this.
but I guess in an attempt to deter
people from smoking the tobacco products
here have like really really disturbing
and disgusting pictures of like rotting
organs or someone dying or a baby and
it's like a big campaign to try to
address how dangerous smoking is.
cellphone plans are way cheaper here
than they are in the US we are getting
straight robbed in the states with our
cellphone plans. can anyone in the
comments tell me why that is? when I
first moved here I started to notice all
of these gold tiles like in the ground
and I finally took the time to look at
them and realize what they were.
they're known as stumbling blocks and
they're put into the ground in front of
the last known address for people who
were murdered during the Holocaust. the
block shows the name of the victim, their
birth date, death date, and where they
died. and when I went to look up those
stumbling blocks
I learned that they're actually a really
controversial some people agree with
them and some people do not. I noticed
that there were a few stores that had
"Mc" in front of it and I came to learn
that "Mc"means discounted or cheap
which to me that feels slightly racist
and I've never even been aware of any
sort of stereotype that Scottish people
are supposed to be cheap.
this is the Romer Passage which is nice
to be able to walk through because it's
cooler in the summer and then warmer in
the winter and it's got a bunch of shops
and restaurants. Germans are all issued a
national ID and they have an obligatory
identification law which means that you
have to have that ID on you and the
police can stop you and ask to see your
ID or at least that's how I understand
it if I'm wrong please put it in the
comments.
I feel like German dogs can go
everywhere. I haven't looked into the
laws but I see them out and about in
public a lot. I've seen them on trains in
stores in restaurants and it seems like
that's perfectly fine but in America
there's a lot of places where you can't
take dogs. there's health codes against
bringing dogs into restaurants in
certain cities... of course it's
state-by-state county by county city by
city but you don't really see dogs out
in public as much. we even have hiking
trails where dogs are not allowed. I get
the feeling that Germans tend to marry
and have kids at a much later age
whereas in this States I think there's
like this still this societal pressure
for people to get married and start
having a family way early on in life.
I'm gonna be honest when I first started
riding my bike around Germany to get to
work or wherever I was going I only paid
attention to the signs for cars. in the
States bicycling I feel like isn't as
popular and so we don't really have that
many signs directed towards bicyclists.
that is not the case in Germany. there
are actually a ton of signs directing
bicyclists where they can go, what speed
they can go, where they can't go and I
very quickly learned to start paying
attention to these signs. they look like
this.... if I understand this correctly this
is a pedestrian zone it's a walking area
we're gonna walk through it next and
bicyclists are free to ride on market
and event free days and they have to go
at a walking pace. in a lot of ways
Germany appears to be more liberal or
more socially progressive than the u.s.
they're way more comfortable with sex
and nudity, they're censorship laws are
far more relaxed, I think you can swear
on TV like any word and it's not an
issue, and you're allowed to drink in
public but in a lot of ways they're not.
like I was really surprised to learn
that gay marriage was legalized only a
year ago. I walked out of my apartment
and I saw all of these celebrations
going on this was like a year ago I
think and it was because gay marriage
had finally been legalized here. also
it's not legal to smoke weed here
whereas that's becoming more and more
legal across the states. so this is the
Guttenberg Platz it's an awesome area as
you can see there are some restaurants
that set out their tables for people to
be able to sit and enjoy the outdoors
and watch the people go by, the buildings
are all really really pretty and several
days throughout the week there's a
market held here.
and when the weather starts getting nice
they start having wine available at this
market is called the fruhstuck markt
which means breakfast market they'll be
selling wine at 10:00 in the morning and
everyone will be out here drinking
having a good time and again that's a
really big difference from what I
remember in this states. you can get a cup
of wine from one of the wine tents and
just walk away whereas in the states, if
it's a sort of event that allows beer
there is no way that you would be able
to leave the premises of that event that
are probably marked with a fence or some
sort of boundary and walk away with
alcohol in your hand because we do not
allow public drinking. but I will say
there are some cities that do allow
public drinking there is a city in
Montana that I've been to that I know
allows public drinking for example and I
think New Orleans even allows public
drinking.
Mainz is where Johannes Gutenberg is
from and yes that's Gutenberg as in the
Gutenberg press and so they have a
Gutenberg Platz and they have a museum
dedicated to him and it has some of the
original Bibles and some of the original
printing presses. it's pretty cool
because you can go in there and actually
use one of the presses to make something
and they let you take it home. of course
I knew that the Berlin Wall came down
right about 30 years ago but what I
didn't know is that Germans actually pay
a specific tax to help try to continue
to economically rehabilitate East
Germany because they're still suffering
some of the consequences from that time
period I also learned that this tax is
quite controversial. in the u.s. I've
never seen crosswalk lights be in the
form of characters this is the mainzelmaechen character. so there seems to be a
pretty strong American influence here in
Germany that I didn't expect. I didn't
expect to see as many English words
whether it's on business signs or on
t-shirts or wherever. I was really
surprised by that and I'm actually
really curious what Germans think of
that...is that annoying to you? do you like
it? is it do you even notice it? I am in
FischtorPlatz right now which is this
little area with a green space and it's
one of my favorite places in Mainz and I
actually used to live on FischtorPlatz before I moved in with my
boyfriend. this is my old place and these
doors actually open up to a little
parking area that I was able to park in
and it definitely demonstrated to me
that cars are just a little smaller here
than they are in the US. it's rare to see
a pickup truck, you don't really see the
big SUVs we have in the States,
and I could barely fit my car into this
parking area not just the space but the
lane that led to my parking spot was so
tight and very difficult to back in and
out of. another difference is that
Germany and a lot of other European
countries right their addresses
differently. so we will put the house
number and then the street after it
whereas
here you put the street and then the
number. so I would have said that I live
at 21 FischtorPlatz if I was thinking
in the American way but here in Germany
it's FischtorPlatz 21. I feel like I can put my address out
there because I don't live there anymore.
the reason why I loved where my
apartment was so much is because not
only was it on
FischtorPlatz and really close to the
wine fest and everything that was going
on in Mainz but also because it's really
close to the Rhine and there's this path
that goes all up and down the Rhine
where you can either walk or run or ride
your bike on. the Rhine is a major
waterway in Germany and not only do
cargo ships go up and down it but
there's a lot of cruise ships... you have
luxury cruises and then more I would say
casual ferries. brothels are legal in
Germany and while I knew that, I didn't
realize when they say red-light district
referring to that very particular
district in Amsterdam it's named that
after the buildings with red lights that
signify the fact that it's a brothel.
like I just never put that together that
when you see a building with fluorescent
red lights that's what it is whereas in
America I feel like we have fluorescent
lights everywhere of all different
colors it doesn't mean anything. for all
my gamers out there, I learned that the
video game versions for PC is way more
popular in Germany than the versions
that are made for specific gaming
consoles. when I went snowboarding in the
Alps
I learned very quickly how much more
popular skiing is here than snowboarding.
I feel like when I would go in the
States you'd actually see a lot of
boarders maybe it'd even be like 50/50
but in the Alps it was by far dominated
by skiers with very few boarders.
Germany has elected a woman as their
Chancellor for 13 years in a row now
which is different because I feel like
in the US a lot of people can't even
fathom the idea of having a woman as
president. there are a lot of ice cream
shops in Germany and I feel like that's
a big difference. yes there are ice cream
shops in the states but I feel like there
are far fewer in the States than there
are in Germany or in Europe as a whole
and some of the bigger ice cream shops
in Germany have these really really
elaborate sundaes and they have this
dessert called spaghetti eis which i
think is like geared toward kids and
it's actually ice cream that's really
truly shaped to look like spaghetti or
even spaghetti carbonara. so along with
writing addresses, another thing that
Germans write differently is the date. we
often put the month first and then the
date and then the year whereas in
Germany they'll put the date first and
then the month and then the year and
that can get a little confusing. another
thing that can get confusing is that
when writing numbers, they use a period
where we use comma and vice versa. so if
you're saying $2,000 and 34 cents it'll
be two point zero zero zero comma three
four whereas in the states it would be
two comma zero zero zero point three
four. a little bit of a difference. I
probably should have talked more about
this when I was at the train station but
I think it's entirely feasible to be
able to live in Germany without a car
depending on where you work because
the cities are so walkable, there are
bicycle paths everywhere where you don't
even really need to be on a road and if
you are on a road there are bicycle
lanes.
it is so bike friendly. and yeah I mean
the public transportation like I said is
on point whereas in the states I feel
like it is very difficult for you to be
able to live without a car unless you
live in a major city. I'm just thinking
about the places I've lived and where I
grew
and I would have to walk like six miles
just to get groceries. this is one of my
favorite parts of Mainz. I love walking
here. of course on a day when everything
is open it's a little bit more lively
and bustley and everyone is shopping and
eating and enjoying themselves. bars in
Germany do not have a fixed legally
mandated closing time like we have in
the States. in the US, the bars have to
close at two but in Germany you could be
out drinking at a bar all night long as
long as that establishment wants to stay
open that late so it's really nothing to
see someone stumbling out of a bar
Sunday morning after an entire night of
drinking we're seeing a bunch of drunk
people or hungover people on the train
in the early morning I have seen it
alive in my travels here. I think there
are a lot of Americans who might not
think that our fast food restaurants are
over here in Germany but they definitely
are here and as an American living in
Germany I've actually gone out of my way
even more to avoid going to McDonald's
or Burger King or KFC because I feel
like it is a cliche for me to go to one
of those restaurants. I think Mainz is
your typical German old city or Alstadt
as they say in German where you have old
buildings that survived both world wars
among new buildings that were built
probably where old buildings had been
destroyed like right behind me you can
see that juxtaposition between buildings.
there are a lot of differences between
Germany and the u.s. that I've noticed
these are really just a few so if you
haven't yet, subscribe to my channel to
catch those. I'm gonna go and try to find
some coffee and enjoy this beautiful
morning. thanks for joining me on this
walk guys! bye